Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the equityverse.
Today, we're going to talk about the S&P
500 and provide another update on the
outlook for 2026. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up, and
check out the sale on ITC premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
I also want to remind people that we are
throwing the inaugural ITC conference
in Miami in November. So, if you are
interested in that, make sure you check
out that. You can find a link to that in
the description below or the pinned
comment. So, we did a video
about a month ago, I think,
essentially just called the same thing,
like outlook for the rest of 2026.
And what we said in that video was the
most likely path here was to get a
shallow June correction.
Okay? So, when you look at when you look
at this, you can see we had had like
eight or nine green weeks in a row.
Um,
we suggested a June correction. Shallow
would be timely because it would it
would line up with prior midterm year
corrections in June. Uh, if you look at
at when Trump was president in 2018,
what you'll notice is that we had a low
early in the year. And then we also had
this very brief correction in June,
followed by another larger by a larger
rally, and then we had the final drop
later in the year. Okay? So, we've
talked about this idea previously about
getting, you know, a a shallow
correction in June. You can also see
there was a a bit of a correction in
June of 2022 as well.
Now that we're almost at the end of
June, I thought it would be time to sort
of update these ideas. So,
the correction that we had we had was
about 5%. I think in the video I
suggested somewhere between like 5 to 8%
or something like that. So, I mean, it
always could go down a little bit more,
but
what you'll often see happen with the
S&P is you'll see a
a low early on in the midterm year. So,
you have early 2026. You'll also see a
low in early 2022.
And in early 2018, and also at the very
beginning of 2014. You'll sort of get an
initial correction.
And then
often times you'll get a shallow
correction sometime like in the early
part of the summer.
Like what we have been in for the last
few weeks.
Uh we also had the same thing in 2022
and the same thing in 2018.
And then what happens after that
historically after that correction ends
is that you get another rally
kind of in the summer where the it's not
like a strong rally. The market just
kind of drifts higher on lower volume
because people are out of the office,
they're on vacation, they're actually
living their lives rather than just
staring at screen at the charts all day.
And then what usually happens is then
you get a second drop in the stock
market that occurs later in the year.
So, you'll notice we had a big one in
the end of 2018, the end of 2022, and
also the end of 2014.
Now, the one in 2014 did not start until
September.
The one in 2018 also started in
September. The one in 2022 started in
August. So, I would argue that the most
likely path
would be what we've seen so far, right?
The the shallow June correction where
you kind of come back down.
And again, it's not important I mean
June's not over yet. And sometimes these
things can even go into the early first
few days of the following month. So,
it's not like an exact science.
Uh maybe you'll see it tag that 21 week
EMA or something, but it doesn't have
to.
Perhaps back up.
And then sometime around that August
September time frame, I would expect a
larger drop. So, the June drop, I think
made sense to be a shallow drop. There's
just not a lot of volume around you
know, this part of the year. But later
in the year, I think you'll have a
larger drop in the stock market
that will then kind of help reset
things, likely lead to Bitcoin putting
in a market cycle bottom. We could also
see gold bottoming out around that time
if not a little bit sooner. So,
something like that. Now, what is a deep
What could a deeper correction look
like? Well, in 2018, it was a 20% drop.
In 2022, it was also a 20% drop. In
2014, it was about a 10% drop. So, I
would say somewhere between 10 and 20%
is where the next correction will end up
being. Would be my guess that'll start
sometime
later this year.
And again, you know, this is just kind
of how mid-term years go, where you'll
get a shallow June correction,
the market will drift higher in like
July and August, and then sometime in
like the August September time frame,
you'll see a larger correction, more
than likely. Sorry, now again, this is
not financial advice.
I can't say for sure that these things
are going to happen.
It doesn't invest It doesn't affect my
investing strategy. I just DCA low
expense ratio index funds every single
month, no matter what. So, this is more
of an academic to get people sort of
mentally prepared for what in fact may
play out for the S&P 500.
There's other There's a couple other
things that I I'd like to show you guys,
and and it involves, if you look at
the political
uh charts that we have in terms of like
how does the S&P perform under various
presidents.
We can look at the presidential term
return paths
uh for the stock market under various
presidents and what you'll see is that
under this is Donald Trump's second term
and if you compare it to Donald Trump's
first term
it's following it pretty closely. There
are some deviations, but it's following
it fairly closely. And so when you look
at this, you can see that we're getting
pretty close to when you would expect a
a rally back up.
Could be a few days away.
Um, and then that would set up for a
larger drop in in the back half of the
year.
So, this is an interesting chart.
If you look at this term compared to Joe
Biden
it's that we're actually seeing the S&P
currently outperform what it did back
under Biden.
If you look at it compared to Obama's
second term, it is slightly
underperforming.
But I I find it interesting just how
you know
closely things can match up like Trump's
first term versus the second term. And
then if you were to flip this over to
say the dollar and how the dollar has
performed under Trump's first term
versus second term
look how close they are, right? Like
it's almost the same thing. It drops for
the first year, bottoms out, and then
begrudgingly goes higher. That ends up
being one of sort of the headwinds that
you could
you know, say, okay, this is the reason
for the correction in the stock market
later in the year is because of the a
persistent dollar that just simply
begrudgingly wants to go higher despite
perhaps the the best intentions by the
powers that be that wanted to actually
go lower, it still begrudgingly tends to
go higher. Um,
in midterm years. And then the other
thing we could look at is we could look
at the year-to-date ROI of the S&P 500
in 2026. And if you look at 2022 and
2018 and 2014, you can kind of see like
when those corrections started. So, a
lot of times you'll have sort of a
shallow June correction like we just
had, and then the market sometimes it
can extend into into July.
Um but then you'll often find a larger
correction starting around the October
or sorry, August to September time
frame.
Um that then sets up that that larger
correction. And if you look at the S&P
500 and compare it to the average of
prior midterm years going back to say
the 1920s, you can see that on average
the low for the stock market occurs in
like late September or early October is
when it often occurs. Now, we had a
larger drop over here. We've sort of
gone a lot higher, sort of
overcompensated. Um
but that's more of like a a seasonality
type thing. But anyways, that's my guess
for how the stock market will play out
for the rest of the year. And and then
hopefully that reset in late 2026 will
be a a much needed reset to kind of calm
um some of the euphoria we've seen and
maybe reset some of those metrics,
um
especially in in in Bitcoin, to then
enter into the next bull market. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe, give the video a thumbs up.
If you want access to these charts, you
can check out the sale on ITC Premium.
Link's in the description below. And
finally, I'd be great to see a lot of
you people uh in person. And um it's
great to meet
people at these conferences. And and if
you want to meet up, meet other
conference speakers,
uh see other people, check out the
Investing Through the Cycles conference
taking place in Miami. Um the main
conference day is November 21st, but
we'll have some events on either side
from the 20th to the 22nd. Thank you
guys for tuning in. Subscribe, and I'll
see you next time. Bye.